Document the MicroEJ debugger proxy (#482)
MicroEJ/docs: ApplicationDeveloperGuide/debuggerProxy.rst

..  _MicroEJ-Debugger-Proxy:

VEE Debugger Proxy
######################

Principle
=========

The MicroEJ debugger proxy is a Java Debug Wire protocol implementation (JDWP) on top of MicroEJ VEE enabling on board debugging.
It consists of a TCP server implementing the JDWP protocol and acting as a proxy between the IDE (debugger) and the VEE (debuggee) running on the board.
This tool can be used to load and inspect a core dump file generated when a process crashes to get a postmortem view of the VEE state when the crache occurred.

> .. figure:: images/debugger_proxy1.png

Reviewer: Then ask @frivieremicroej to update usages of VEE / terms accordingly

> .. figure:: images/debugger_proxy1.png

Author: the schematics is an inline graph like plantuml called mermaid. do you want me to share it in text file?

> .. figure:: images/debugger_proxy1.png

Reviewer: yes, share the source file and instructions to rebuild it

> .. figure:: images/debugger_proxy1.png

Author: where should I share the doc and the instructions?

> .. figure:: images/debugger_proxy1.png

Author: done

   :alt: MicroEJ Development Tools Overview of the Debugger on Board
   :align: center

   MicroEJ Development Tools Overview of the Debugger on Board

.. note::

>    This feature requires Architecture version ``8.0.0`` or higher.

Author: done

The MicroeEJ debugger proxy only allows a postmortem debug now so it requires among other things a core dump file of a running MicroEJ VEE process.

Generate a coredump file for MicroEJ VEE Linux using GDB
========================================================

> Open a shell terminal and enter the following commands:

Author: done

.. code-block:: sh

    # Instruct the Linux kernel to Dump file-backed private mappings.
    echo 0x37 > /proc/self/coredump_filter
    # Stard gdb.
    gdb ./application.out

Suppose we want to generate a corefile when the the signal ``SIGUSR1`` is received, or when a out of memory error occurs, or when a garbage collection (GC) is done, enter the following commands:

.. code-block:: sh

   # In the gdb console.
   catch signal SIGUSR1 # catch the SIGUSR1 signal
   commands 
   silent

>    generate-core-file [file] # the argument `file` specifies the file name where to put the core dump

Author: we should replace the [file] by the filename we want

>    generate-core-file [file] # the argument `file` specifies the file name where to put the core dump

Author: done

   cont
   end

   break LLMJVM_on_OutOfMemoryError_thrown # break in the LLMJVM_on_OutOfMemoryError_thrown, this function is called when an out of memory error occurs
   commands 
   silent
   generate-core-file [file] # the argument `file` specifies the file name where to put the core dump
   cont
   end

   break LLMJVM_on_Runtime_gc_done # break in the LLMJVM_on_Runtime_gc_done function
   commands 
   silent
   generate-core-file [file] # the argument `file` specifies the file name where to put the core dump
   cont
   end

Run the program:

.. code-block:: sh

    # In the gdb console.
    run

A coredump file will be generated automatically when the ``LLMJVM_on_Runtime_gc_done`` function is called or the ``SIGUSR1`` signal is received.

> You can also suspend the process and generate the core dump file yourself:

Author: done

.. code-block:: sh

    # In the gdb console.
    # suspend first the process with Ctrl-C and then generate the core dump file.
    generate-core-file [file] # the argument `file` specifies the file name where to put the core dump

Run the VEE Debugger proxy
==============================

Please contact :ref:`our support team <get_support>` to get the VEE Debugger Proxy program.

> Open a shell terminal and run the following command

Author: done

.. code-block:: sh

    java -Dloader.path=<Path to runtime jars> \
        -Ddebugger.port=<8000> \
        -Ddebugger.out.path=<Path to VEE .out file> \
        -Ddebugger.out.coredump.path=<Path to VEE .out coredump file> \

>         -Ddebugger.out.format=<elf> \

Author: https://youtrack.cross/issue/M0081MEJA-2096

>         -Ddebugger.out.bigEndianness=<false> \

Author: https://youtrack.cross/issue/M0081MEJA-2096

        -jar microej-debugger-proxy.jar

* **debugger.port**: TCP server port, default to 8000
* **debugger.out.path**: path to VEE .out file
* **debugger.out.coredump.path**: path to VEE .out coredump file
* **debugger.out.format**: VEE .out file format, default to elf

> *  **debugger.out.bigEndianness**: VEE .out file big endian, default to false

Author: https://youtrack.cross/issue/M0081MEJA-2096

> * **loader.path**: The path to the platform ``soarModelReader.jar`` and ``vmModelReader.jar`` needs to be provided here.

Author: https://youtrack.cross/issue/M0081MEJA-2097

..  _MicroEJ-Debugger-Proxy:

> MicroEJ Debugger Proxy

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
VEE Debugger Proxy
```

######################

Principle
=========

> The MicroEJ debugger proxy is a Java Debug Wire protocol implementation on top of MicroEJ VEE enabling on board debugging.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The VEE Debugger Proxy is a Java Debug Wire Protocol (JDWP) implementation enabling on board debugging for VEE processes.
```

> The MicroEJ debugger proxy is a Java Debug Wire protocol implementation on top of MicroEJ VEE enabling on board debugging.

Reviewer 3: The MicroEJ debugger proxy is a Java Debug Wire protocol (JDWP) implementation on top of MicroEJ VEE enabling on board debugging.

> It consists of a TCP server implementing the JDWP protocol and acting as a proxy between the debugger and the VEE running on the board.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It consists of a TCP server implementing the JDWP protocol and acting as a proxy between the IDE (debugger) and the VEE (debuggee) running on the board.
```

.. figure:: images/debugger_proxy1.png
   :alt: MicroEJ Development Tools Overview of the Debugger on Simulator
   :align: center

>    MicroEJ Development Tools Overview of the Debugger on Simulator

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   MicroEJ Development Tools Overview of the Debugger on Board
```

.. note::
   This feature requires Architecture version ``8.0.0`` or higher.

> The MicroeEJ debugger proxy only allow a postmortem debug now so it requires among other things a core dump file of a running MicroEJ VEE process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The current version of the VEE Debugger Proxy only supports postmortem debugging. 
It requires a core dump file of a VEE process and some libraries provided by the VEE project.
```

> The MicroeEJ debugger proxy only allow a postmortem debug now so it requires among other things a core dump file of a running MicroEJ VEE process.

Reviewer 3: The MicroeEJ debugger proxy only allows a postmortem debug now so it requires among other things a core dump file of a running MicroEJ VEE process.

Generate a coredump file for MicroEJ VEE Linux using GDB
========================================================

> 

Reviewer 2: In this section, I would start by explaining how the debugger can be used in production.

The coredump file should be generated whenever the VEE process receive a specific user signal or when a fatal error is raised using interrupts maybe. 

Then this core dump file can be loaded into the Debugger Proxy to perform a postmortem inspection of the VEE process state

Open a shell terminal and enter the following commands:

.. code-block:: sh

    # Instruct the Linux kernel to Dump file-backed private mappings.
    echo 0x37 > /proc/self/coredump_filter
    # Stard gdb.
    gdb ./application.out
    # In the gdb console run you program.
    run
    # When you want to generate the coredump file, suspend first the process with Ctrl-C and then generate the core dump file.
    generate-core-file [file] # the argument `file` specifies the file name where to put the core dump

> Run the MicroEJ Debugger proxy

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Run the VEE Debugger proxy
```

==============================

> Please contact :ref:`our support team <get_support>` to get the MicroeEJ Debugger proxy program.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Please contact :ref:`our support team <get_support>` to get the VEE Debugger Proxy program.
```

Open a shell terminal and run the following command

.. code-block:: sh

    java -Dloader.path=<Path to runtime jars> \
        -Ddebugger.port=<8000> \
        -Ddebugger.out.path=<Path to VEE .out file> \
        -Ddebugger.out.coredump.path=<Path to VEE .out coredump file> \
        -Ddebugger.out.format=<elf> \
        -Ddebugger.out.bigEndianness=<false> \
        -jar microej-debugger-proxy.jar

* **debugger.port**: TCP server port, default to 8000
* **debugger.out.path**: path to VEE .out file
* **debugger.out.coredump.path**: path to VEE .out coredump file
* **debugger.out.format**: VEE .out file format, default to elf
*  **debugger.out.bigEndianness**: VEE .out file big endian, default to false
* **loader.path**: The path to the platform ``soarModelReader.jar`` and ``vmModelReader.jar`` needs to be provided here.
  This is a Comma-separated Classpath, such as `lib,${HOME}/app/lib`.
  Earlier entries take precedence, like a regular -classpath on the javac command line. 

>   Other runtime jars can be provided using this property.

Reviewer 3: The path must contain the name and the extension of the file (e.g. ./linux-platform/source/tools/soarModelReader.jar).

    echo 0x37 > /proc/self/coredump_filter
    # Stard gdb.
    gdb ./application.out

Suppose we want to generate a corefile when the the signal ``SIGUSR1`` is received or when a garbage collection (GC) is done, enter the following commands:

.. code-block:: sh

   # In the gdb console.
   catch signal SIGUSR1 # catch the SIGUSR1 signal

>    break LLMJVM_on_Runtime_gc_done # break in the LLMJVM_on_Runtime_gc_done function

Reviewer 3: It can be helpful to add the symbol "LLMJVM_on_OutOfMemoryError_thrown" as an example.

>    commands 

Reviewer 3: The command list is for the last breakpoint or catchpoint. Here, the signal catchpoint will not generate the core dump.
It is necessary to duplicate the commands for the catchpoint.
Or to add the breakpoint or catchpoint id to the commands line.
